http://amelica.org/index.php/en/about/#que-eshttp://amelica.org/index.php/en/principles-and-values/AmeliCA is a communication infrastructure for scholarly publishing and open science. Sustained cooperatively, this initiative focuses on a non-profit publishing model to preserve the scholarly and open nature of scientific communication.AmeliCA commenced as Open Knowledge for Latin America and the Global South. On August 2019, however, faced with a regional context where platforms, science national councils, academic institutions and part of the scholarly community look down on local publishing by being compliant with commercial publishers’ strategies, and in the presence of an international context where initiatives such as Plan S define open science as a route, AmeliCA and Redalyc took concerted action to strengthen the non-profit publishing model to preserve the scholarly and open nature of scientific communication —also known as diamond model— beyond the Global South.1.Scholarly and scientific knowledge generated with public funds is a common good and access to it is a universal right.2.The open, academy-owned, non-profit, non-subordinate, without charges for publication or processing, sustainable, and with responsible metrics publishing model ought to be strengthened.3.Open Access has neither future nor meaning unless research assessment systems evolve and value publication by their own merits and not by where it is published.4.Open Access consolidation demands the transition to digital scientific communication.5.Financial investment in Open Access ought to be in line with its benefit for society.6.Open Access sustainability through cooperative work schemes and a horizontal distribution to cover costs.7.Diversity of scientific journals is necessary hence pressure to homogenise them ought to be stopped.8.Journals ought to allow authors to retain their copyright and remove their embargo policies.9.Science’s social impact is the foundation of Open Access’ existence.10.The various dynamics to generate and circulate knowledge per field ought to be respected, especially, as regards Social Sciences and Humanities.