https://www.fosteropenscience.eu/about#objectivesThe PortalThe FOSTER portal is an e-learning platform that brings together the best training resources addressed to those who need to know more about Open Science, or need to develop strategies and skills for implementing Open Science practices in their daily workflows. Here you will find a growing collection of training materials. Many different users - from early-career researchers, to data managers, librarians, research administrators, and graduate schools - can benefit from the portal. In order to meet their needs, the existing materials will be extended from basic to more advanced-level resources. In addition, discipline-specific resources will be created.The ProjectFOSTER Plus (Fostering the practical implementation of Open Science in Horizon 2020 and beyond) is a 2-year, EU-funded project, carried out by 11 partners across 6 countries. The primary aim is to contribute to a real and lasting shift in the behaviour of European researchers to ensure that Open Science becomes the norm.Research communities, research performing institutions, and research funders have each recognised that OS skills are increasingly essential for researchers to undertake responsible research and innovation. While there is increasing agreement around the need to improve OS skills amongst all stakeholders, the adoption of OS approaches has been quite limited to date. Indeed general awareness of OS approaches has improved among EU researchers. However, there is still a lack of practical guidance and training to help researchers learn how to open up their research within a particular domain or research environment. For this reason, FOSTER Plus places specific emphasis on creating discipline-specific guidance and is partnering with expert organisations representing the scientific areas of life science, social science and humanities.FOSTER Plus will enhance existing materials and co-produce new training content. The resources will be discipline-specific and their practical and tangible outcomes can directly be applied into researchers’ daily practices. The training activities will be addressed to all relevant stakeholders in the European Research Area, with a focus on young scientists, academic staff and policy makers. A strong train-the-trainer approach and network of open science trainers to act as ambassadors will help to reach a wide audience.Our ObjectivesSupport a culture change, whereby the practical aspects of Open Science are fully implemented and ultimately rewarded, by providing an advanced-level, outcome-oriented training programme based on courses and activities for which participants can attain digital badges.Consolidate and sustain a training support network comprised of Open Science ambassadors from a range of research performing organisations and research infrastructures.Strengthen the training capacity  by addressing the current skills and content gaps, both at community/discipline and institutional levels, on the practical implementation of Open Science.Main ActivitiesThe objectives will be pursued through the combination of the following main activities:Delivery of  face-to-face training events, blended and e-learning courses  that will focus on providing practical, outcome-oriented lessons;Creation of  high quality and advanced-level training resources  including a multi-module Open Science toolkit and an  Open Science training handbookConsolidation of an  Open Science trainers network involving the disciplinary communities of  humanities, social sciences and life sciences