https://freeourknowledge.org/about/We're building a platform to help researchers organise collective action in support of open and reproducible research practicesProject Free Our Knowledge is a grassroots movement driven by early career researchers who seek a fairer and more secure future in academia for our friends and colleagues. We are currently 100% self-funded (but seeking support!). The project is being led by:What are we doing?At Project Free Our Knowledge, we’re building the world’s first collective action platform for researchers. Our website hosts grassroots campaigns that are created and developed by the research community, and seek to normalise open and reproducible research practices. Researchers can support these campaigns by making a ‘pledge’, which is a commitment to adopt a particular action described in the campaign. Depending on the campaign design, pledges can either activate immediately (i.e., at the time of signing), or once some critical mass of pledges is met (these are called ‘conditional pledges’). By gauging community support in this way prior to taking action, ‘conditional pledges’ seek to protect researchers’ interests until such time that they can move together with their broader community. Think of it like Kickstarter, but for motivating behavioural change rather than products.What is our vision for the future?In the early days, we expect our campaigns will ask small cohorts of researchers (tens or hundreds of people) to adopt simple actions (e.g., upload some data, post a preprint, or join a new platform). In the future, however, we plan to build on these small-scale successes to host ever-larger and bolder campaigns that ask thousands or tens of thousands of researchers to adopt progressively bolder behaviours (e.g., permanently changing one’s publishing practices, or pressuring institutions to change their hiring practices). By probing the academic system from multiple directions at once, across multiple fields at once, we hope to tap into the latent desires of different research communities and, through collective action, empower disenfranchised researchers around the world to create positive change in academia.