https://oaaustralasia.org/about/

Our goal is to make Australasian research outputs open for all.

The group was founded in 2013 as the Australian Open Access Support Group, AOASG. In 2015, with the addition of members from New Zealand and a change of focus, it became the Australasian Open Access Strategy Group.

In 2021, we became Open Access Australasia.

We support all models of open access, and in particular we endorse the principles of the  F.A.I.R. Access Policy Statement  for research outputs to be Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable, ensuring they can be part of the global research ecosystem. 

We are committed to advocating for and raising awareness of open access in Australia and New Zealand through collaboration regionally and internationally and building capacity and expertise within this region.

This website aims to be an authoritative source of information on all aspects of open access in Australia and New Zealand.

Our major focus is on open access to research publications – preprints, peer reviewed scholarly manuscripts, books, monographs and theses. We also contribute to initiatives in open research practices, data, software, open educational resources, reform of research assessment and copyright and open licenses.

 

Open Access Australasia Strategy 2021-2022
Principles
2020 was a tumultuous year globally and one that reinforced the key role of open access to academic research to combat global threats, specifically the COVID-19 pandemic. 

In late March 2021, Open Access Australasia (then known as AOASG) members met to review last year’s work and to provide input on priorities for 2021-2022.

The principles that underpin the work of Open Access Australasia are:

Equity in scholarly communications, to both access and publish research
Support for a diverse ecosystem of open access approaches
Support for integrity and quality in research
Maximisation of the impact of research
Appropriate and respectful use of Indigenous knowledges
Retention of rights by authors or their institutions
Our strategic priorities for 2021-2022
Advise on national, regional and international strategies for open research
Establish Open Access Australasia as the authoritative regional resource for open access 
Support thriving communities of practice for open access in Australasia
Related initiatives
Though our work for 2021-2022 will continue to focus primarily on open access, we are mindful of the need to ensure that it aligns with work regionally and globally on open research initiatives more widely. We will continue to monitor developments across the entire research lifecycle and will participate as appropriate.  

Rationale and activities associated with strategic priorities
Advise on national, regional and international strategies for open research
Rationale
Work by CAUL and Open Access Australasia in 2020 cemented the interest and opportunity for a national approach in Australia. International work also coalesced around support for open research more generally as evidenced by UNESCO and APEC work.

Specific Activities
Liaison with CAUL to support work of Australia’s Chief Scientist
Support for UNESCO consultation
Discussion of relevant policies and initiative with national funders and peak bodies 
Provide support to CONZUL as requested to support open access in New Zealand
Establish Open Access Australasia as the authoritative regional resource for open access 
Rationale
Research on the use of our website in 2020 showed that there was large use of specific, regional content especially directories of unique Australasian content and resources tailored to this region.

Specific Activities
Complete the project to renew the website and transfer relevant content across
Develop new resources, especially aimed at providing rapid, accurate updates
Develop online courses and other resources on open access
Support thriving communities of practice for open access in Australasia
Rationale
As open access uptake increases across the region, there is an associated increase in the need for a healthy community of practice to support practitioners. We have  long-standing experience in coordinating communities of practice for New Zealand and Australia through monthly online meetings. 

Specific Activities
Provide opportunity for  our Australian group to  support particular aspects of open access
Continue our webinar series to promote awareness of the diversity of open access approaches
Engage with our membership through practitioner working groups


