https://peercommunityin.org/Peer Community in PCI, a free recommendation process of scientific preprints based on peer reviews

PCI is a non-profit organization of researchers offering peer review, recommendation and publication of scientific articles in open access for free.

Following submission by authors, the thematic PCIs evaluate preprints in their scientific fields based on rigorous peer-review. After evaluation, the PCIs may recommend those preprints, to make them complete, reliable and citable articles, without the need for publication in ‘traditional’ journals. Authors who need to publish their article in a journal can publish it for free in Peer Community Journal or submit it to a PCI-friendly or other journal.

Thematic PCIs are entitled Peer Community in X, e.g. – Peer Community in Evolutionary Biology (PCI Evol Biol) and Peer Community in Ecology (PCI Ecol). See the list of all current PCIs.

The recommendation of an article is an editorial decision made by a recommender based on at least two rigorous peer review and after one or several rounds of peer reviews.  The recommendations are published in the corresponding thematic PCI websites with a DOI and can be cited.

Once recommended by PCI, articles become citable valid references, similar to journal articles, but they can still be submitted to a journal or directly published in the Peer Community Journal.

PCI IN A FEW LINES
STIMULATING, OPEN, FREE, INDEPENDENT, NOT EXCLUSIVE AND RELIABLE.

Following submission by authors, the thematic PCIs evaluate preprints in their scientific fields based on rigorous peer-review. After evaluation, the PCIs may recommend those preprints, to make them complete, reliable and citable articles, without the need for publication in ‘traditional’ journals. Authors who need to publish their article in a journal can publish it for free in Peer Community Journal or submit it to a PCI-friendly or other journal.

Thematic PCIs are entitled Peer Community in X, e.g. – Peer Community in Evolutionary Biology (PCI Evol Biol) and Peer Community in Ecology (PCI Ecol). See the list of all current PCIs.

 
The recommendation of an article is an editorial decision made by a recommender based on at least two rigorous peer review and after one or several rounds of peer reviews.  The recommendations are published in the corresponding thematic PCI websites with a DOI and can be cited.

Once recommended by PCI, articles become citable valid references, similar to journal articles, but they can still be submitted to a journal or directly published in the Peer Community Journal.


PCI IN A FEW LINES
STIMULATING, OPEN, FREE, INDEPENDENT, NOT EXCLUSIVE AND RELIABLE.

OUR KEY FEATURES
Stimulating: Each PCI recommends remarkable articles in its field.

Open: PCI is an open-science initiative based on:

open access to the recommended articles (on preprint servers and archives)
open access to the evaluation (reviews, author’s responses and editorial decisions)
data, scripts and code available to the readers
 
Free: The whole PCI process is free for any user (readers, authors…). The websites of the PCIs are freely accessible.

Independent: PCI in not-for-profit and non commercial. It is managed by scientists for scientists. Conflicts of interests are carefully checked at each step of the process. 

Not exclusive: An article recommended by a PCI may subsequently be published in a traditional journal (although this is not the goal of the PCIs).

Reliable: Decisions are based on sound evaluations by at least 2 reviewers. The Managing Board checks the quality of reviews, decisions and recommendations.

Peer Community In complies with publishing ethics guidelines.

Just like diamond Open Access, PCI allows scientists to regain control of the scientific publication process and disconnect it from financial issues. PCI also wants to refocus scientific quality on articles rather than on journals. 


REASONS TO BELIEVE IN PCI
The PCI evaluation process is high-quality, free, and transparent. It is likely to succeed for the following reasons:

 

It fulfills the open science commitments requested by an increasing number of institutions, countries, funding agencies

All articles recommended by PCI have open data, scripts and code.
All articles recommended by PCI are open access, freely accessible on preprint servers or institutional archives
PCI ensures transparent peer review
It results in a peer-reviewed article that can be cited as is or published in a journal

Authors are free to either leave their recommended article on the preprint server, or, if they need journal articles for their career, to publish it directly to Peer Community Journal or submit it to a PCI-friendly journal
It provides a solution to value reviewing and editorial work

Recommendations (and associated reviews) are citable with their DOI
Reviewers can choose to publish their names or to remain anonymous
Institutions have direct access to reviewing work of their researchers, since each recommender of a thematic PCI has their own personal page for displaying and reporting their reviews, comments and recommendations (example).
It focuses on the scientific contents of articles and watches out for the ethical rules of publication

Conflicts of interest are kept track of throughout the process
Financial conflict of interest are forbidden
It shares the workload between researchers

Recommenders, unlike associate editors in traditional scientific journals, have no commitment to review and recommend papers. Each recommender is rather encouraged to review and recommend 1 or 2 articles per year in average.
Because of the high number of recommenders, PCI will not be jeopardized if some recommenders are inactive.
It benefits from a solid infrastructure

PCI is managed by scientists from research institutions
It was funded by the French National Open Science Fund
It is financially supported by many universities and research bodies
PCI ensures long-time conservation of its contents in CLOCKSS


