https://www.rd-alliance.org/about-rdaThe Research Data Alliance (RDA) builds the social and technical bridges to enable the open sharing and re-use of data.The Research Data Alliance (RDA) was launched as a community-driven initiative in 2013 by the European Commission, the United States Government's National Science Foundation and National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the Australian Government’s Department of Innovation with the goal of building the social and technical infrastructure to enable open sharing and re-use of data.RDA has a grass-roots, inclusive approach covering all data lifecycle stages, engaging data producers, users and stewards, addressing data exchange, processing, and storage. It has succeeded in creating the neutral social platform where international research data experts meet to exchange views and to agree on topics including social hurdles on data sharing, education and training challenges, data management plans and certification of data repositories, disciplinary and interdisciplinary interoperability, as well as technological aspects.The RDA Foundation provides the core business operations of RDA and represents RDA globally.The RDA Vision and MissionThe RDA Vision: Researchers and innovators openly share and re-use data across technologies, disciplines, and countries to address the grand challenges of society.The RDA Mission: RDA builds the social and technical bridges that enable open sharing and re-use of data. RDA Guiding PrinciplesOpenness – Membership is open to all interested individuals who subscribe to the RDA’s Guiding Principles. RDA community meetings and processes are open, and the deliverables of RDA Working Groups will be publicly disseminated.Consensus – The RDA moves forward by achieving consensus among its membership. RDA processes and procedures include appropriate mechanisms to resolve conflicts.Inclusive – The RDA seeks to promote broad, balanced and inclusive representation of its membership and stakeholder communities.Harmonization – The RDA works to achieve harmonization across data standards, policies, technologies, infrastructure, and communities.Community-driven – The RDA is a public, community-driven body constituted of volunteer members and organizations, supported by the RDA Secretariat.Non-profit and technology-neutral - RDA does not promote, endorse, or sell commercial products, technologies, or services and the development of open and re-usable recommendations and outputs within the RDA is mandatory.