https://www.humboldt-foundation.de/en/explore/about-the-humboldt-foundation/strategy-of-the-alexander-von-humboldt-foundationOur missionTo use individual sponsorship to promote outstandingly qualified researchers and future leaders from science-related fields with the aim of creating a world-spanning collaborative network of excellence – this is the mission of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. The resulting Humboldt Network connects performance elites worldwide both with one another and with Germany. It thus reinforces the internationalisation of the German academic and research landscape as well German foreign cultural and educational policy beyond the scope of scientific cooperation. Fostering the Humboldt Network – initiating, strengthening and extending academic contacts between sponsorship recipients and German colleagues as well as amongst Humboldtians across the globe – pursues the following strategic goals:To forge collaborative academic relations in order to connect Germany within a globalised world To contribute to enhancing understanding between cultures and countries To promote sustainable development in economically weaker states in the interests of a peaceful world To reinforce internationalisation in the research location, Germany Our visionExcellence: We consider the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation’s network to be Germany’s most important international network, connecting the world’s leading personalities in research and research-related, socially relevant fields. By creating space for creativity, promoting cooperation based on trust as well as a spirit of free thinking, it motivates its members to work for the benefit of Germany and the global world community – even beyond the scope of academic topics.Our actions are dedicated to developing and fostering this network of excellence and to efficiently exploiting the expertise inherent in it.Our opportunities and challengesThe internationalisation of the German science system is seen by the Humboldt Foundation as a cross-border extension of academic activities and responsibilities. Apart from academic goals, internationalisation inevitably involves social, economic and political goals, as well. It makes indispensable contributions to collaboration between experts, recruiting foreign researchers and experts for the domestic science and employment market, accessing research infrastructures, effectively utilising expertise and resources, developing scientific approaches and perspectives as well as mastering scientific and social challenges.In the context of internationalising the German science system, over the decades, the Humboldt Foundation’s activities and core programmes as well as its role in alliance with its partner organisations have developed and proven their worth. The general conditions within the science system and associated systems have, however, changed both in the national and the international context. Moreover, the conditions for producing excellence vary around the world – in the face of the innovation gap, the appropriate standards for the 21st century and its discourses need to be developed further. This gives rise to opportunities and challenges to which the Humboldt Foundation is responding structurally, culturally and strategically by systematically developing its funding portfolio. Furthermore, the Humboldt Foundation considers it its duty to communicate the topics and insights generated by its work with the Humboldt Network to society at large. The main focus is on the following challenges:Contest for the best scientific talents The tensions between creativity, usefulness and “visibility” of research Relationship between cooperation and the pursuit of advantage International political landscape and situation of science 
Our goals up to 2023In order to achieve the strategic goals outlined in Chapter 1, the Humboldt Foundation sees its key mission in reinforcing the Humboldt Network. The members of the Humboldt Network are individuals who share these goals and who through their engagement or their actions help to meet the challenges described. We consequently want to ascribe an even more central role to the extension, fostering and utilisation of the Humboldt Network as a principle guiding our actions. This strategic focus will be supported by a structure and a culture that will guarantee that all processes within the Humboldt Foundation are efficiently focussed on the network. In order to achieve these goals, we are seeking to develop measures in the following fields of action:Field of Action 1: Continuing to develop the network (“network of excellence”) Field of Action 2: Creating and consolidating benefits (“network of collaboration”) Field of Action 3: Communicating and utilising value (“network of trust”) Cross-cutting Field of Action: Focussing the Foundation on the future (“network organisation”) 