https://www.csir.co.za/csir-briefhttps://www.csir.co.za/about-us-0“The objects of the CSIR are, through directed and particularly multi-disciplinary research and technological innovation, to foster, in the national interest and in fields which in its opinion should receive preference, industrial and scientific development, either by itself or in co-operation with principals from the private or public sectors, and thereby to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the people of the Republic, and to perform any other functions that may be assigned to the CSIR by or under this Act.”The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is a leading scientific and technology research organisation that researches, develops, localises and diffuses technologies to accelerate socioeconomic prosperity in South Africa. The organisation’s work contributes to industrial development and supports a capable state.The CSIR was established through an Act of Parliament in 1945 and the organisation’s executive authority is the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology.The organisation plays a key role in supporting public and private sectors through directed research that is aligned with the country’s priorities, the organisation’s mandate and its science, engineering and technology competences.Impact is at the core of our business and the following objectives are crafted to ensure that we achieve our mission:Conduct research, development and innovation of transformative technologies and accelerate their diffusion;Improve the competitiveness of high-impact industries to support South Africa’s re-industrialisation by collaboratively developing, localising and implementing technology;Drive socioeconomic transformation through RD&I that supports the development of a capable state;Build and transform human capital and infrastructure; andDiversify income, and maintain financial sustainability and good governance. Our core values are EPIC and they are the driving force behind our ability to conduct cutting-edge research and technological innovation to improve the quality of life of South Africans. The CSIR pursues Excellence, celebrates People, personifies Integrity, and welcomes Collaboration.CSIR visionWe are accelerators of socio-economic prosperity in South Africa through leading innovationCSIR missionCollaboratively innovating and localising technologies while providing knowledge solutions for the inclusive and sustainable advancement of industry and societyCSIR valuesOur beliefs, principles and the impact we wish to make to improve the quality of life of South Africans are EPIC. Team CSIR pursues Excellence, celebrates People, personifies Integrity, and welcomes Collaboration.