https://www.cnrs.fr/en/cnrsThe French National Centre for Scientific Research is among the world's leading research institutions. Its scientists explore the living world, matter, the Universe, and the functioning of human societies in order to meet the major challenges of today and tomorrow. Internationally recognised for the excellence of its scientific research, the CNRS is a reference in the world of research and development, as well as for the general public.SnapshotThe National Centre for Scientific Research is an interdisciplinary public research organisation under the administrative supervision of the French Ministry of Higher Education and Research.MissionsThe French state has entrusted the CNRS with the role of advancing knowledge for the benefit of society. The organisation seeks to accomplish this national mission while respecting ethical rules and showing commitment to professional equality.To identify and conduct, alone or with its partners, research that is in the interest of science as well as the technological, social, and cultural advancement of the country.A five-pronged missionConduct scientific researchThe CNRS conducts “research that is in the interest of science as well as the technological, social, and cultural advancement of the country”. Oriented toward the common good, this research approach is multidisciplinary in nature, long-term in outlook, and open to the unknown.Transfer research resultsThe CNRS’s aim is for society to benefit from the advances it achieves, whether they relate to technologies, sustainable development, or societal issues. Numerous measures for technology transfer and application have been implemented to that effect, notably with industrial partners.Share knowledgeThe CNRS gives access to research results and data, for they are part of our common heritage. This sharing of knowledge is intended for different audiences, including the scientific community, the media, and the general public.Train through researchKnowledge is also transmitted through training and the conduct of research, with the CNRS welcoming hundreds of future researchers, PhD students, and postdoctoral fellows in its laboratories each year.Contribute to scientific policyThe CNRS participates in the national research strategy with its partners, notably at major French university locations. It also carries out evaluations and expert assessments on scientific matters.Promoting ethics in researchIntegrity in research has become a key element in scientific policies. In recent years, norms defined on the European and international levels have prompted countries and research institutions to tackle this issue head on. As a pioneer in the domain, the CNRS is perfectly in keeping with the philosophy of the National Charter of Ethics for the Research Professions (2015).The purpose of research is to contribute to the development of knowledge and the advancement of science. It relies on the principles of honesty, scientific integrity, and responsibility, on which the public bases its confidence in research.Commitment to professional equalityThe CNRS’s Mission for Women’s Integration, reporting directly to the CNRS president, is a pioneering governing body in France’s research landscape. For more than fifteen years, it has endeavoured to promote gender equality in the workplace, as well as the integration of gender in research programmes.Women represent 34.5% of researchers, and 49.7% of engineers and technicians. Despite recent progress, gender parity has not yet been achieved among scientists.The “Acting for Professional Equality at the CNRS” action plan (2014) has four main focuses: striving for professional equality within the CNRS (recruitment, careers, honors); promoting an interdisciplinary “gender” approach in research; encouraging scientific and technical careers with young people, especially girls; developing European and international partnerships.