https://www.helmholtz.de/en/about-us/
https://www.helmholtz.de/en/about-us/our-values/
The challenges of our time can only be solved with the help of cutting-edge research. At Helmholtz, more than 40,000 people are working to shape the world of tomorrow, in 18 centers, and with research infrastructures that are unique worldwide.


About us - The Association
We are Germany's largest research organization and develop solutions and technologies for the world of tomorrow. In doing so, we ask ourselves key questions: What helps in the fight against life-threatening diseases? How can climate change be slowed down? How will the next quantum revolution change our lives?

Meeting challenges like these requires cutting-edge research. At Helmholtz, more than 43,000 employees work together in 18 centers to create extraordinary things. Together, we want to develop innovative technologies and thus preserve the foundations of human life.

To do this, we rely on infrastructures that are unique in the world: Our centers design and maintain numerous powerful large-scale facilities, such as the world's most powerful X-ray laser or supercomputers of the international top class. Satellites, aircraft and research vessels collect important data on behalf of Helmholtz. We make the knowledge thus acquired freely accessible, because we work on behalf of society.

We address the big questions of our time, from fundamental discoveries to practical applications. With an annual budget of five billion euros and long-term, interdisciplinary research programs, Helmholtz is one of the leading research organizations, even by international standards: We cooperate with the best institutions worldwide.

Sustainability
Our scientists are among the leading thinkers in sustainability research in many fields. We not only address the issue of resource conservation scientifically, but also actively implement it ourselves.

Open Science
The term Open Science refers to a cultural change in scientific working methods and communication.

Good scientific practice
Science must be credible. Helmholtz has long been committed to ensuring good scientific practice. We are guided by the guidelines of the German Research Foundation (DFG).

Data privacy in research
Many branches of science study people. Health researchers, for example, collect vast amounts of personal data and use them as the basis of scientific studies such as statistical evaluations.

Viewpoints
We regularly take a position on current discussions in science and science policy. On this page you will find an overview of statements, standpoints and positions of the Helmholtz Association.

Funded initiatives
We support various initiatives in education, networking and science communication. 