https://www.jst.go.jp/EN/about/overview.htmlJST plays a central role in Japan's Science and Technology Basic Plan. Based on science and technology targets issued by the government we fund basic research, commercialization of new technologies, distribution of science and technology information, and in recent years promote international joint research and the fostering of next generation human resources. Our comprehensive contribution stimulates real progress in science and technology and helps tackle a variety of social issues.We continue to strengthen our close relationships with universities, research institutes and industry inside and outside Japan, create collaborative science and technology innovation and ensure the sustainable development of our society.?The Science and Technology Basic Plan, based on the Science and Technology Basic Law enacted in November 1995, aims to comprehensively and systematically advance Japan's science and technology policy. The government formulates the basic plan based on forecasts for the next decade, putting into effect science and technology policies over a 5-year period.Funding ProgramsAs a network-based research institute, JST promotes research and development leading to innovation and address economic & social issues throughout the implementation of research results and international joint researches.Strategic Basic ResearchInternational CollaborationsIndustry-Academia Collaboration and Technology TransferPublic EngagementPromoting dialogue with various stakeholders toward co-creation of a future society. JST also fosters next generations talents in the fields of S&T as well as human resources who can contributes to S&T innovation.Promotion of “Science in/for Society”Fostering the Next Generation Human ResourcesMiraikanR&D Strategy PlanningThroughout dialogue with stakeholders and data analysis, JST formulate R&D strategies toward the future.Information Platform and Database Services, etc.JST provides information services supporting for R&D activities. JST collects and organizes information on research articles, literatures, researchers, patents etc., and develops the infrastructure for providing access to the information. JST is also involved with Open Science activities based on the international trend.