https://nerc.ukri.org/about/https://nerc.ukri.org/about/whatwedo/vision/NERC - the Natural Environment Research Council - is the driving force of investment in environmental science in the UK. NERC advances the frontier of environmental science by commissioning new research, infrastructure and training that delivers valuable scientific breakthroughs. We do this because understanding our changing planet is vital for our wellbeing and economic prosperity.We invest public money in world-leading science, designed to help us sustain and benefit from our natural resources, predict and respond to natural hazards and understand environmental change. We work closely with policymakers and industry to make sure our knowledge can support sustainable economic growth and wellbeing in the UK and around the world.

NERC is part of UK Research & Innovation- external link (UKRI), a new body which works in partnership with universities, research organisations, businesses, charities and government to create the best possible environment for research and innovation to flourish. UKRI aims to maximise the contribution of each of its component parts, working individually and collectively. We work with our many partners to benefit everyone through knowledge, talent and ideas.We are supported mainly by the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS), but our activities and funding decisions are independent of government.Our visionTo place environmental science at the heart of responsible management of our planet.We no longer live in a natural world - there is virtually no part of the environment that we have left unchanged.Our growing population and the way we live has changed our relationship with the environment and humans are now the dominant source of change.People around the world aspire to escape poverty and improve living standards: achieving this whilst living within the Earth's limits is a great challenge of the 21st century.NERC science has a critical role to play in meeting this challenge - to help the UK deliver innovation and growth with responsible environmental management.Our purposeNERC was created in 1965 when a number of environmental research organisations and surveys were brought together by Royal Charter. From 1 April 2018, NERC is part of UK Research & Innovation, a new organisation that brings together the UK's seven research councils, Innovate UK and Research England to maximise the contribution of each council and create the best environment for research and innovation to flourish. The vision is to ensure the UK maintains its world-leading position in research and innovation.NERC responsibilities as set out in the Higher Education & Research Act 2017 are to:carry out research into environmental science, technology and new ideasencourage and support the provision of postgraduate training in environmental science, technology and new ideasfacilitate, encourage and support environmental research, technology and new ideasfacilitate, encourage and support the development and exploitation of environmental science, technology and new ideasfacilitate, encourage and support knowledge exchange in relation to environmental science, technology and new ideascollect, disseminate and advance knowledge in environmental science, technology and new ideaspromote awareness and understanding of environmental science, technology and new ideasprovide advice on any matter relating to NERC functionspromote awareness and understanding of NERC activities.Strategy and goalsNERC scientists study the whole planet, from the edge of the atmosphere to the centre of the Earth, and excel at revealing the environmental challenges confronting the world. Tackling these complex problems requires us to go further, bringing together deep understanding of environmental science with a whole-systems approach.With our new Delivery Plan, NERC is setting out its ambition to lead a broad and diverse research community to bring about the environmental solutions - clean air and water, limited climate warming, a circular economy, and diverse ecosystems - needed in the UK and worldwide, to foster a productive, healthy and resilient environment.The NERC Delivery Plan is part of the suite of UKRI Delivery Plans- external link - setting out our strategic direction.Our delivery plan focuses on eight priority areas to deliver NERC's ambition:Environmental solutions: Champion environmental solutions to contribute to clean growth, nurturing a generation of researchers who take a systems approach to complex environmental problems.Pushing the frontiers of understanding: Maintain the UK's leading environmental science expertise to be ready for the unknown challenges of the future, challenging researchers to be adventurous and ambitious, exploiting new technologies and approaches.Productive environment: Build understanding of economic and environmental system interactions, embed environmental sustainability into economic models, and enable a shift to a circular, resource-efficient economy.Healthy environment: Promote research to reduce environmental degradation and support healthy life on Earth, increase understanding of the health and wellbeing benefits of a healthy environment, and of the interactions between environmental systems and a healthy economy, society and culture.Resilient environment: Increase understanding of environmental change and environmental hazards to manage vulnerability, risk, response and recovery, and promote interdisciplinary research to protect lives and livelihoods.Digital environment: Use cutting-edge technology including machine learning, miniaturisation and battery technology to advance environmental nowcasting. Combine data across disciplines to generate new insight, using high-performance computing to create virtual environments.Global environment: Bring leadership and UK expertise to understanding the whole Earth system, tackling global challenges, international development and responding to environmental emergencies. Work in partnership and in internationally coordinated efforts to tackle complex environmental challenges.Best environment for research and innovation: Maintain and enhance the NERC centres of expertise, infrastructure, services and facilities, which benefit the UK environmental science community and global partners. Ensure a pipeline of talent with the skills to resolve future challenges and take a whole-systems approach. Engage with the public and stakeholders to draw-in expertise and share knowledge. Lead across UKRI on environmental sustainability.