http://www.ras.ru/about/rascharter/tasks.aspxSubject, goals and activities, main tasks and functions of the Academy11. The subject of the Academy's activities is to ensure the continuity and coordination of fundamental scientific research and exploratory research carried out in the most important areas of natural, technical, medical, agricultural, social and humanitarian sciences, expert scientific support for the activities of public authorities and scientific and methodological guidance of scientific and scientific -technical activities of scientific organizations and educational institutions of higher education.12. The objectives of the Academy are:a) conducting and developing fundamental scientific research and exploratory research aimed at obtaining new knowledge about the laws of the development of nature, society, man and contributing to the technological, economic, social and spiritual development of Russia.b) expert scientific support for the activities of state bodies and organizations.c) assistance to the development of science in the Russian Federation.d) dissemination of scientific knowledge and enhancing the prestige of science.e) strengthening links between science and education.f) assistance in raising the status and social protection of scientific workers.13. The main tasks of the Academy are:a) development of proposals for the formation and implementation of the state scientific and technical policy.b) conducting fundamental scientific research and exploratory research funded from the federal budget, participating in the development and approval of the program of fundamental scientific research in the Russian Federation for a long-term period.c) examination of scientific and technical programs and projects. Requirements for scientific and technical programs and projects to be sent for examination to the Academy, and the procedure for referral to such an examination are established by the Government of the Russian Federation.d) provision of scientific and advisory services to state bodies and organizations, implementation of expert functions.e) study and analysis of the achievements of world and Russian science, development of recommendations for their use in the interests of the Russian Federation.f) strengthening scientific ties and interaction with subjects of scientific and (or) scientific and technical activities.g) preparation of proposals aimed at developing the material and social base of science, increasing the degree of integration of science and education, effectively realizing the innovative potential of fundamental science and increasing the social protection of scientists.h) popularization and propaganda of science, scientific knowledge, achievements of science and technology.14. To implement its main tasks, the Academy performs the following main activities within the state assignment:a) carries out, including at the request of the state authorities of the Russian Federation, an examination of scientific and technical programs and projects, monitoring and evaluation of the results of the activities of state scientific organizations, regardless of their departmental affiliation, as well as an examination of scientific and (or) scientific and technical results, created at the expense of the federal budget.b) participates in the prescribed manner in the development and examination of regulatory legal acts in the field of scientific, scientific, technical and innovative activities, protection of intellectual property.c) prepares and submits to the President of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Russian Federation reports on the state of fundamental sciences in the Russian Federation and on the most important scientific achievements obtained by Russian scientists.d) develops proposals on priority areas for the development of fundamental sciences, as well as on areas of exploratory research.e) develops and submits to the Government of the Russian Federation recommendations on the amount and types of budgetary allocations envisaged in the federal budget for the next financial year for the financial support of fundamental scientific research and exploratory research conducted by scientific organizations and educational institutions of higher education, and on the directions of their spending .f) represents Russian scientists in international scientific unions and their governing bodies, participates in the activities of other international scientific organizations, concludes agreements on scientific and information cooperation with academies of sciences and research organizations of foreign states, participates in the organization and holding of international scientific congresses, conferences , symposia, seminars.g) carries out editorial and publishing activities, including publishing scientific monographs, establishing and publishing scientific journals, in which the results of scientific research carried out by Russian scientists are published.h) creates scientific, expert, coordinating councils, committees and commissions on the most important areas of development of science and technology.i) perpetuates the memory of outstanding scientists, institutes medals and prizes for outstanding scientific and scientific and technical achievements, including gold medals, prizes named after outstanding scientists, medals and prizes for young scientists and for students in educational programs of higher education.j) establishes honorary titles and confers them on Russian and foreign scientists.15. The Academy has the right, in excess of the established state task, as well as in cases determined by federal laws, within the established state task, to perform work (provide services) related to the main activities of the Academy, for citizens and legal entities for a fee and on the same when performing ( rendering) the same works (services) conditions.16. The Academy has the right to carry out the following other types of activities, which are not the main types of activities, only insofar as it serves to achieve the goals for which the Academy was created, and corresponding to the specified goals:a) expert activity, in addition to that specified in clause 14 of this charter (examination of various projects, programs, documents, results of scientific activity, state historical and cultural examination, examination of textbooks (other educational and other publications).b) creation of the results of intellectual activity on request (order).c) provision of scientific advisory, consulting and expert services.d) the provision of services for the conduct of scientific, cultural and entertainment events, the organization of seminars, conferences and other events. e) production and sale of printed products, production, distribution and sale of audiovisual products, information and other materials related to the activities of the Academy.f) lease of property, including real estate, in the manner and on the terms established by the legislation of the Russian Federation and this charter.g) organization and holding of conferences, other scientific-organizational and scientific-practical events.17. The Academy has the right to submit proposals to the Government of the Russian Federation (other state bodies authorized by it) on the following issues:creation of organizations whose activities meet the goals, objectives and functions of the Academy.creation and participation in the work of international organizations, the activities of which meet the goals, objectives and functions of the Academy.18. The Academy has the right to participate in other organizations in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.19. The Academy has the right to carry out capital construction, reconstruction and overhaul with the fulfillment of the functions of a customer, technical and economic maintenance of real estate objects assigned to the Academy on the basis of operational management, protection of historical places and buildings, transport services to members of the Academy.