https://knb.ecoinformatics.org/aboutAbout the KNBThe Knowledge Network for Biocomplexity (KNB) is an international repository intended to facilitate ecological and environmental research.The KNB was launched in 1998 with a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF), with the purpose of being the long term home for synthesis datasets and research products generated by National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS) working groups. Since then, NCEAS has continued to operate the KNB not only as an archive for NCEAS working group products, but also for the broader ecology and environmental science community. The KNB accept all environmental or ecological related data and publishes datasets with Digital Object Identifiers for the express purpose of ensuring long-term access to these datasets. We strive to abide by FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable) principles of data sharing and preservation.NCEASHosted by the National Center for Ecological Analysis and SynthesisNCEAS has fostered a global community of ecologists and multidisciplinary environmental scientists eager to solve some of the toughest environmental questions through collaborative, synthesis research, since 1995. NCEAS believes data transparency and reproducibility are essential to the utility of the environmental sciences, and works to advance scientific culture in the direction of open science. The KNB is a primary public data archive for NCEAS working group research products, and hosts data from NCEAS initiatives such as the State of Alaska's Salmon and People project and the Science for Nature and People Partnership.DataONEPartnered with DataONEData Observation Network for Earth (DataONE) provides a distributed framework and sustainable cyberinfrastructure that meets the needs of science and society for open, persistent, robust, and secure access to well-described and easily discovered Earth observational data. DataONE is a federation of repositories based on a common infrastructure that allows for federated search and replication between repositories. The KNB is a Tier 4 DataONE member node, meaning that it allows the DataONE infrastructure to use available storage space on the KNB for storing copies of objects that originate on other member nodes in the DataONE network, based on the Node Replication Policy. This helps ensure dataset longevity by providing geographically distinct copies of data on multiple servers.Data underlies metadataPowered by rich, detailed metadata.For scientists, the KNB is an efficient way to share, discover, access and interpret complex ecological data. Due to rich contextual information provided with KNB data, scientists are able to integrate and analyze data with less effort. The data originate from a highly-distributed set of field stations, laboratories, research sites, and individual researchers. The foundation of the KNB is the rich, detailed metadata provided by researchers that collect data, which promotes both automated and manual integration of data into new projects.Open-source software.Learn about the KNB Developer Tools and APIAs part of the KNB effort, data management software is developed in a free and open source manner, so other groups can build upon the tools. The KNB is powered by the Metacat data management system, and is optimized for handling data sets described using the Ecological Metadata Language, but can store any XML-based metadata document. 