https://www.dwd.de/DWD-GCOS/EN/nationalcontributions/servicesforgcos/intdatacentres/wdc-climate/wdc-climate_node.htmlThe World Data Center for Climate (WDC-Climate) is maintained by the German Climate Computing Centre (DKRZ), whose mission is to provide users from the climate research community in Germany with access to high performance computing and technical support. Emphasis is placed on data from climate model calculations, but corresponding observational data from a variety of projects are also available.Significance for GCOSThe WDC-Climate collects, archives and disseminates climate (model) data and products and provides these free of charge to the international research community. With a view to establishing a well organised networkof data centres for earth sciences, there is close co-operation with numerous institutions dedicated to related branches of study, such as earth observation, meteorology, oceanography, paleo-climatology and environmental research.Model data include global as well as continental and national data sets (see table). Disk storage capacity of 1,500 terabytes is available plus more than 100 petabytes on magnetic tapes. During recent years, data life cycle management has become more and more important. This includes advising the project partners during proposal-writing as well as during the lifetime of the project and the concluding data publication and dissemination phase, and on long-term archival of results. These long-term archived data can be marked with persistent digital object identifiers (DOI), which allow users to quickly locate the data even after several years.International contextAlthough the WDC-Climate has an international orientation and is open to scientists from all over the world, most data are accessed from the research community in Germany. Here, cooperation with universities and major research centres and with institutes of the Max Planck Society or the Deutscher Wetterdienst (DWD) is equally important. International co-operation also exists for the utilisation of data for the preparation of the assessment reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The WDC-Climate, which is situated in Hamburg, is involved as part of the IPCCÕs Data Distribution Centre (DDC). It is one of the internationally leading data centres providing data for model comparison projects (e.g. CMIP5). In addition, software solutions from user interfaces to storage of data sets on magnetic tapes are jointly developed in international collaborations.