https://www.frontiersin.org/about/about-frontiersFrontiers is a leading Open Access Publisher and Open Science PlatformOur journals are led and peer-reviewed by editorial boards of over 100,000 top researchers. Covering more than 900 academic disciplines, we are one of the largest and highest-cited publishers in the world. To date, our freely accessible research articles have received over 1 billion views and downloads and 1.6 million citations.We strive to continuously empower the academic community with innovative solutions that improve how science is published, evaluated and communicated to researchers, innovators and the public.Our mission is to make science open.Research is the foundation of modern society and it’s thanks to advances in science that we enjoy longer, healthier and more prosperous lives than ever before in human history. We want to build on successful science and make it even more powerful by ensuring it is openly available. This way, society will be able to generate more knowledge and accelerate innovation, health and prosperity for all.LEADER IN INNOVATIONTo achieve this goal, Frontiers pioneered an in-house Open Science technology platform. This includes a Collaborative Peer Review Platform, a Digital Editorial Office, article-level metrics and AIRA, an Artificial Intelligence Review Assistant.PUBLISHING MODELCommunity-driven journalsLeading researchers serve as independent editors and reviewers on our editorial boardsResearch TopicsArticle collections showcasing emerging and important areas of researchCollaborative Peer-ReviewUnique online forum with real-time interactions to ensure rigorous, constructive and transparent peer-reviewImpact MetricsSuite of article level metrics, measuring article and author impactLoopAcademic network fully integrated into our publishing platform maximizing discoverability and impactFrontiers for Young MindsPlatform where kids engage with leading scientists in reviewing and editing cutting-edge research