https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/page/journal/14724642/homepage/productinformation.html
Diversity and Distributions was launched in 1998 and publishes twelve issues a year.

In 2019, Diversity and Distributions transitioned to an Open Access model. The journal does not charge any submission fees. To find out more about the journal’s Article Publication Charges, click here.

 

Diversity and Distributions is a journal of conservation biogeography. We publish papers that deal with the application of biogeographical principles, theories, and analyses to problems concerning the conservation of biodiversity. Appropriate topics include identifying the agents of global change, including how climate change, land use change, overexploitation, pollution and invasive species affect the abundance, distribution, spatial genetic composition and range boundaries of species; innovative applications or methods of species distribution modelling and individual-based modelling with applications in conservation biogeography; the application of island biogeographic principles to conservation; phylogeographical or landscape genetics/genomics studies with clear conservation implications; developing paradigms, models and frameworks for conservation planning and risk assessment; investigating ecological and anthropogenic factors favouring the emergence of infectious diseases (EIDs).

Papers must meet five criteria to be considered for publication:

(1) they must have a strong biogeographic focus with clear conservation implications, or a strong conservation focus on biogeographic patterns or principles.
(2) submissions must derive novel insights from biogeographic patterns and processes and biodiversity status and trends.
(3) the research must be conducted across large spatial, temporal or taxonomic scales, and results - or methodological approaches proposed - must be relevant beyond the specific study system.
(4) results must have clear and important implications for our understanding of biogeography or conservation and must be of potential broad interest to the readership.
(5) they must have a solid theoterical underpinning, a clear study design and robust methods, and the findings must be presented clearly and concisely.
* Please note that biogeography studies that are potentially informative for conservation, but where conservation implications are not well elaborated, are not a good fit for the journal. Similarly, the threatened status of species in a study is not a sufficient condition to meet criterion number 1.

Diversity and Distributions makes provision for full-length research papers and reviews as well as short essays (up to 2000 words) considering biodiversity from a particular disciplinary, regional, political, or other standpoints ('Biodiversity Viewpoints'), and short items (up to 1000 words) of general interest with respect to biodiversity ('Biodiversity Letters').

Diversity and Distributions is a sister publication to Journal of Biogeography and Global Ecology and Biogeography.  The three journals have distinct but complementary focus areas within the broad field of biogeography.