https://neobiota.pensoft.net/aboutNeoBiota is a peer-reviewed, open-access, rapid online journal on the underlying mechanisms and associated consequences of all types of alien species and biological invasions.NeoBiota publishes papers across all disciplines interested in biological invasions, specifically on the ecology, evolution and biogeography of non-indigenous aquatic and terrestrial animals, plants, fungi and micro-organisms, on mechanisms that drive the introduction, establishment and spread of these species, on ecological, evolutionary, economic and other consequences of biological invasions, and on the management of invasions in any part of the world. NeoBiota also strongly encourages papers on ethical, social, legal and policy issues related to biological invasions.NeoBiota considers the following categories of papers for publication:Research articles: Publication of a study concluding significant new and original information.Review articles: Literature survey based on previously published studies that provides a state-of-the art overview on a specific research topic, offering a comprehensive overview, historical analysis or/and future perspectives, ideally leading to new conclusions.Short communications: Original research that can be presented briefly i.e., in no more than three published pages. The usual structure of research papers can be relaxed.Discussion papers: Publication meant to initiate a discussion on a particular scientific topic.Project description: Descriptions of recently started project of community interest. These are usually projects of European or larger interest, i.e. involving three or more countries and working on novel ideas and concepts.Methods: Description of innovative applications, methods and techniques that can contribute to significant improvement and acceleration of research in a certain field as well as experiments and their rationale used for a research outcome to be concluded and verified. This may include standardized and replicable protocols, as well as methods and techniques for sampling, monitoring or experiments. Deposition of method or protocol descriptions in international specialised repositories (e.g., protocols.io) and linking to these in the article is strongly encouraged.Data papers: A data paper is a searchable metadata document, describing a particular dataset or a group of datasets, published in the form of a peer-reviewed article in a scholarly journal. Unlike a conventional research article, the primary purpose of a data paper is to describe data and the circumstances of their collection, rather than to report hypotheses and conclusions. Data papers submitted to MBMG describe original data which are the outcome of a model, experiments, observations, surveys, or any other means of data collection.Software description: Software description is an article type that aims to describe a new software product and its detailed feature specifications.R Package: Descriptions of new R Package including information on its purpose, installation and usage as well as other bioinformatic scripts of relevance. The source code should be openly accessible (e.g. GitHub).Letters to the editor/Commentaries: Correspondence articles are short pieces which comment on other published articles of broad importance. They contain a maximum of 1000 words excluding citations. Editorials: By invitation only.Book reviews: Review of recently published books of interest to the invasion science community. Book reviews can be suggested to the EiC or solicited by the EiC.Corrigenda: Corrections to errors that were reported in previous papers of the authors in NeoBiota.Letters to the editor and Commentaries may be accepted/rejected based on editorial evaluation only. Editors may decide to forward these manuscript for peer review at their discretion.The journal is published online and in print.The journal NeoBiota is a continuation of the former NEOBIOTA publication series founded in 2002 by the working group with the same name. This group meanwhile evolved into "NEOBIOTA, the European Group on Biological Invasions" and decided in 2010 to transfer the publication series into the open-access, peer-reviewed journal NeoBiota. Previous volumes of NEOBIOTA (1-8) can be viewed at http://www.oekosys.tu-berlin.de/menue/neobiota/