https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/s/journal-informationPLOS Biology publishes significant advances across the biological sciences. And we push boundaries. Designed to advance science and the communities who depend upon it, we’re transforming research communication to fit the research process. Evolving article types and policies empower authors to share the full story behind their science with a global audience of researchers, educators, policy makers, patient advocacy groups, and the public. Transform Your ResearchAuthors who publish with PLOS Biology benefit from policies and research outputs shaped by the process of scientific enquiry, as well as outstanding quality and trusted expertise. PLOS Biology offers…More time to do research. Easily submit a PDF of your manuscript (without formatting!) and get a preliminary decision from one of our staff editors in about one week. You’ll only need to provide additional information if we decide to send your work for peer review.Assessment grounded in the roots of science. Our assessment emphasizes the value of research questions and the approach undertaken, surfacing the importance of the entire research process -- not just the final results. Timely feedback on your work. Our Staff Editors provide you with an initial decision within 6 days on average, and peer-review takes 42 days on average.Portable peer review. We consider manuscripts on the basis of reviews received at other journals, working with Academic Editors to arbitrate these reports directly to avoid or minimize further peer-review. More ways to share each stage of your research and get credit for each piece. Preprints as well as a diverse range of publishing options such as preregistration and linked article types document the full research cycle in a way that makes sense for your science. Consideration of complementary research. Although originality is an important  criterion for studies published in PLOS Biology, the journal depressurizes the publication process by accepting submissions that confirm, replicate, extend, or are complementary to a recently published significant advance. Read our editorial, The Importance of Being Second for more information on this policy.Combined expertise of dedicated Staff Editors and leading scientists in the field. Our Staff Editors work with you to guide your work through submission and peer review. They also partner with our Academic Editors, who are experts in the field, to provide expert guidance. This unique editorial model ensures expertise, fairness and efficiency for each manuscript.Tools to ensure transparency and long term replicability of your work. Open data, code, and protocols help ensure your work remains replicable, while contextualized peer review and the option to publish your peer review history provide additional expert insight into the evaluation of your work and the rationale behind publication decisions.  Broad visibility and impact. Your research is open to everyone to see, cite, share and build upon your science. Our superior press program helps boost their impact with additional media coverage.

Scope
PLOS Biology is the flagship PLOS journal in the life sciences and features works of exceptional significance, originality, and relevance in all areas of biological science and at every scale; from molecules to ecosystems, including works at the interface of other disciplines. We also welcome data-driven meta-research articles that evaluate and aim to improve the standards of research in the life sciences and beyond.

We evaluate research based on the important questions it answers as well as its potential to impact an international scientific community as well as educators, policy makers, patient advocacy groups, and society more broadly.