https://www.cell.com/aboutScience that inspires
Cell Press publishes over 50 scientific journals across the life, physical, earth, and health sciences, both independently and in partnership with scientific societies. Our story began over 45 years ago with the journal Cell and a commitment to publishing exciting biology. Today, we are bringing our editorial excellence, commitment to innovation, unparalleled reach and visibility, and passion for advocacy to all areas of scientific exploration as we work to publish and share science that inspires.
We inspire future directions in research by nurturing and supporting scholars and practitioners in all scientific disciplines with passion demonstrable in everything that we do. We provide an editorial experience that is insightful, fast, and fair; and deliver innovations that drive science forward.

Our teams understand science and actively collaborate with authors to ensure their paper is robust and compelling, giving them the best possible outcome for their research. We innovate to enhance discoverability, put research in context, and make it more actionable. Global visibility ensures that important research is read, used, and talked about. Engagement in the community and advocacy supports the value of science.

Our focus
Open access
We are committed to meeting the growing demand for open access and new publishing model options. Explore your open access options with Cell Press.

Peer review
We believe strongly in the value of peer review for the scientific process, and we work hard to make it as effective, fair, and valuable as possible. Explore recent content and initiatives focused on peer review.

Inclusion & diversity
We value all kinds of diversity and are committed to increasing inclusion and diversity in research and publishing. Learn more.

Our values
Editorial
excellence
Science that inspires confidence
We collaborate with authors every step of the way. You can expect constructive, reasonable feedback based on rigorous, thoughtful peer review and exceptional editorial and production support to ensure your paper engages and inspires the community.
 
Innovation
Science that inspires creativity
We know science is changing, and we’re thinking creatively about how publishing can evolve with it. You can expect innovative new policies, features, and technologies from us that drive research forward.

 
Reach & visibility
Science that inspires conversation
We understand how important it is for science to reach its audience. You can expect unparalleled global reach, discoverability, and visibility for your research that ensures it is read, used, and talked about by the right people.

 
Advocacy
Science that inspires change
We believe in the impact of science on our world and our future, so we do everything we can to advocate for it. You can expect us to listen to the scientific community and to use our platform to tackle important issues.