https://www.elsevier.com/about/this-is-elsevierElsevier at a glanceRemarkable progress has been made thanks to dedicated researchers and health professionals, each contributing to a global community.At Elsevier, we are privileged to serve this community by combining advanced technology with reliable information to deliver insights.Because informed decisions lead to better outcomesAs a global leader in information and analytics, Elsevier helps researchers and healthcare professionals advance science and improve health outcomes for the benefit of society.We do this by facilitating insights and critical decision-making for customers across the global research and health ecosystems. In everything we publish, we uphold the highest standards of quality and integrity at scale to ensure value to our customers. We bring that same rigor to our analytical solutions for researchers, health professionals, institutions and funders.Trusted for 140 yearsWe have supported the work of our research and health partners for more than 140 years. Growing from our roots in publishing, we offer knowledge and valuable analytics that help our users spend more time making breakthroughs and drive societal progress.Researchers and healthcare professionals rely on our 2,650 digitized journals, including iconic publications such as The Lancet founded in 1823 and Cell one of the flagship titles from Cell Press; our 42,000+ eBook titles; and our iconic reference works, such as Gray's Anatomy.560k+peer-reviewed articlesElsevier serves the global research community, publishing over 560,000 peer-reviewed articles in 2020 — 90% more than a decade ago.94%of the top 100 health systemsMost of the top 100 health systems (ranked by bed count) use at least one of Elsevier’s Clinical Solutions.The future is open, and we are here to support you.Open ScienceWe believe in open science and open access to knowledge. We have created a wide-ranging portfolio of open access publishing options for authors and researchers across all subject areas. Nearly all our journals already offer immediate open access options, and we are committed to finding a sustainable path so we can extend this to all our titles.Our customersWatch a video that celebrates the ongoing progress of research and health professionalsEvery day, research and health professionals dedicate themselves to improving outcomes for communities, patients and society at large. Elsevier is committed to quality and innovation to improve the value we deliver to researchers, research leaders, librarians, funders, healthcare professionals and educators in an open, inclusive and collaborative manner.ResearchersWe support academic researchers as they seek to break ground with their discoveries. We are honored to convene and support expert editorial teams who, in turn, ensure the quality of research. We enhance and amplify the work of researchers and help them stay on top of the never-ending flow of information in their fields and related fields. And we provide insights that help find funding, identify international, interdisciplinary and commercial collaborators, and manage data to ensure that their work is reproducible.LibrariansWe support librarians in their role as connectors of the quality of knowledge and knowledge dissemination to advance their institutional mission. We provide options to publish and showcase their collections and share them openly.Leaders & fundersWe help research leaders and funders understand their performance and the research landscape, identify researchers and cross-sector partners to advance their programs, recognize funding opportunities and manage the research enterprise.Health professionalsWe help physicians, nurses and other clinicians improve the lives of patients. We provide evidence-based tools to help healthcare providers make faster, better decisions at the point of care and improve outcomes for patients. We provide content and digital tools to help them manage their work more efficiently and give patients a consistent quality of care.Health educators and studentsWe work with health educators to prepare today's students for successful careers in medicine, nursing and health professions, providing world-class content and innovative teaching and learning tools that improve educational outcomes and help prepare students for healthcare practice.R&D professionalsWe support corporate R&D professionals with information, data and analytics that allow them to save time, make better decisions and innovate at the speed and scale society expects of them.Dr. Francesca Dominici Elsevier has really positioned itself as a data science company, and with an enormous amount of data science and analytic expertise, what type of things can we work on together? Improving gender equality in academiaEnriched data.Enhanced analytics.Evidence-led decisions.Artificial intelligence research clusters. Elsevier is applying advanced Machine Learning and Natural Language Programming techniques to help researchers, engineers and clinicians perform their work better.Elsevier creates tools that put users in control, helping them work faster, manage complexity and free up time to focus on their goals and improve outcomes in the areas of R&D Solutions, Clinical Solutions, Research Platforms, Research Intelligence and Education.ScienceDirect18m+ScienceDirect, the world’s largest platform dedicated to peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, hosts more than 18 million pieces of content from over 4,300 journals and over 42,000 eBooks and receives more than 18 million visitors a month. Elsevier has continued to invest in ScienceDirect and integrate new remote access methods to provide researchers with the ability to easily use its tools when working from home, safe in the knowledge that they are doing so securely, and that their privacy and data are protected.