https://www.wiley.com/en-gb/aboutusWiley empowers researchers, learners, universities, and corporations to achieve their goals in an ever-changing world.For over 200 years we have been helping people and organizations develop the skills and knowledge they need to succeed. We develop digital education, learning, assessment, and certification solutions to help universities, businesses, and individuals move between education and employment and achieve their ambitions. By partnering with learned societies, we support researchers to communicate discoveries that make a difference. Our online scientific, technical, medical, and scholarly journals, books, and other digital content build on a 200-year heritage of quality publishing.Our mission has always focused on helping our customers succeed, wherever they are in their education and professional careers.We are bridging the higher education gap by delivering content solutions in new and innovative ways to enrich the learning experience. We are a proven leader in strategic higher education consulting and partnering with educators and institutions globally to achieve success, and our print and digital solutions enable students and instructors worldwide. We encourage learning to be a continuous, lifelong experience – an integral, essential part of every stage of building a career.We are closing the talent deficit by supporting employers, helping them find and retain top talent, assess their employees’ skill sets, and implement training in order to transform company cultures. For decades we have helped people learn; today we’re showing them new ways to achieve, get certified and advance their careers.We are strengthening the research community by partnering with learned societies and supporting researchers to communicate discoveries that make a difference. We collaborate with authors, societies, libraries, and other members of the research community to generate, communicate, and enable access to the scientific and scholarly insights that are helping to solve some of the world’s biggest challenges.Our commitment to partnership helps us advance innovation and connect researchers, learners, and professionals with the content, platforms, and tools they need to be successful.