https://conbio.org/about-scb/who-we-are/A Globalized ApproachThe Society for Conservation Biology (SCB) is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to facilitating, promoting, and advancing the scientific study and conservation of biological diversity. While our historical roots were founded in the field of biology, we recognize that conservation in today’s complex world requires a globalized approach that maximizes collaboration amongst professionals from all fields.  With more than 4,000 members worldwide, professionals, students, organizations, and supporters collaborate together in a way that transcends borders to advance the SCB vision and mission.VisionMissionOrganizational ValuesBeliefsStrategic PrioritiesSCB HistoryVisionWe envision a world where people understand, value, and conserve the diversity of life on Earth and where SCB, a globally diverse, equitable, and inclusive community of professionals, students, organizations, and supporters, serves as a leading voice for the scientific study and conservation of Earth's biological diversity.MissionTo advance the science and practice of conserving Earth’s biological diversity.Organizational ValuesThe Society for Conservation Biology holds these values:The Society and its Members - We value the Society in its entirety, respect the roles that the Society and its members play in collaboratively achieving our vision, and value our members and open, honest and respectful communication.Excellence - We value, establish, uphold and promote professional standards of excellence for the conservation science profession across the globe.Diversity - We recognize the importance of a diverse, equitable, and inclusive community in addressing the worlds’ global challenges to maintaining biological diversity.Cooperation and Partnership - We value, encourage and foster cooperation and partnerships within and beyond the direct conservation science community.BeliefsThere is intrinsic value in the natural diversity of organisms, the complexity of ecological systems, and the resilience created by evolutionary processes.Human-caused extinctions and the destruction and loss of function of natural ecosystems are unacceptable.Maintaining and restoring biological diversity are individual and collective responsibilities of humans.Science is critical for understanding how the natural world operates and how human actions affect nature.Collaboration among scientists, managers, policy-makers, and other stakeholders is vital to incorporate high-quality science into policies and management decisions affecting biological diversity.Strategic PrioritiesIn service to the mission, vision, and values, the SCB Strategic Plan focuses on five priorities:Facilitate the creation and dissemination of conservation science: The highest quality scientific research and expertise needed to understand and conserve biological diversity is identified, supported and disseminated.Advance the application of conservation science to management, policy and education: Management, policy and education at local, national, regional, and global levels are directly informed with the highest quality science. The effectiveness of management actions is routinely and openly evaluated.Empower Sections, Committees, Working Groups & Chapters to build local, national & international capacity: SCB Sections, Committees, Working Groups, and Chapters grow and develop to build local, national, and international capacity worldwide for conservation of biological diversity.Build organizational capacity to maintain robust & sustainable economic & business models.: SCB has the capacity necessary to sustain core operations and implement programmatic goals and objectives that advance our vision and mission.Enhance services to meet current & potential member needs: The needs of current and potential SCB members are effectively served to maximize their impact in advancing our vision and mission.One way we accomplish this is through our biennial International Congress of Conservation Biology (ICCB).  With more than 2,000 of the world's premier academics, educators, students, scientists, agency personnel, practitioners, and researchers in attendance, ICCB is recognized as THE most important international meeting for conservation professionals.